# Spotify Liked Songs Analysis

## Abstract
Utilizing Spotify's REST API, paired with a third party data source we were able to analyze over 175 thousand songs, that all contained categorical track information and numerical audio data. These features consisted of genre, artist's name, popularity, acousticness, danceability, track duration, energy, instrumentalness, tempo, time signature, and valence. Additionally, the Spotify API allowed us to extract liked tracks from a given user, along with the date these songs were added to their Favorites playlist. The goal of this analysis, at a glance, was to quantify the individual's listening habits. Specifically, this report aims to determine how each of the former audio features relate to the likelihood the individual will like a given song, and to build a model that could predict this event. Overall, our analysis found that danceability is affected by the level of acousticness in a given track. Additionally, we found that the popularity feature contributed the most to the event of our user liking a track, relative to the correlation these two variables possessed. We also uncovered that the user we had data for did not change their music taste between seasons. Lastly, through logistic regression, we were able to build a model that predicted 172,727 records of our data correctly.

## Data Collection & Information
Data on over 100 thousand tracks within Spotify's library were collected using the platform's Web API. The original data collection method was to scrape 10,000 tracks per genre. With 26 genres in Spotify's library, we were left with 232,725 tracks. After removing duplicates where the artist and track name were the same, we were left with 176,514 records in the data frame. Subsequently, using the Web API again, we pulled the same data, however filtering for songs that are in my favorites playlist and the date it was liked. These data frames were merged by creating a liked variable in the larger Spotify library data frame, where 1 implies the song is in the person's favorites playlist, and 0 meaning it is not. It is important to note that when the term *liked* appears, it is referencing the physical action of adding the track to Spotify's personal favorites playlist, not actual distaste or favorement towards a track on any emotional or psychological level. The majority of variables in the data were numerical features that Spotify calculates for each of its tracks in their library. The audio features and Spotify's official definition for each can be found below. I've also included the two engineered columns (*liked*, *liked_date*).

## Conclusions
Music taste and the event of an individual liking a track is a very opinionated as it is, thus it makes it very difficult to justify our findings and logistic regression model to hold true across different users and over time. However, our analysis does provide us with a deep dive into the specific user's music listening behavior at a specific time. In other words, assuming the individual's taste doesn't change, we can argue that our findings will remain true. In conclusion, we found that the danceability of a given track is affected by the level of acoustic instruments found in the same song. This is plausible considering a vast number of dance tracks today are being developed using electronic systems (hence the EDM genre - Electronic Dance Music). We then used the Pearson Correlation coefficient to identify the popularity audio feature as having the strongest relationship with our liked variable. In other words, the correlation coefficient of 0.23, relative to the other audio features, suggested that the popularity feature was the strongest indicator of a track being liked. This finding led the analysis into the subsequent section of studying the listening behavior of the user and using a T-Test to declare if the popularity mean in the two samples, Summer and Winter, are in fact unequal. However, the result of our statistical test indicated that we lack significant evidence to declare that the mean of the popularity variable between our two samples are unequal. Therefore, we can claim that the user's listening history does not change between seasons, relative to the strongest indicator of the individual liking a track. In an effort to summarize our discoveries, we developed two iterations of a logistic regression model to substantiate our findings of how the individual audio features all relate to the event of a track being liked.

## Limitations & Recommendations
As we mentioned earlier, the Spotify platform is just one of many that an individual can utilize to stream and listen to music on. It is known that the user we collected data on does use various platforms to stream music, however, given the large sample size we had at our disposal, we were able to conduct the former statistical tests. However, it should be noted that the former situation can cause our findings to be somewhat inaccurate due to the fact the user could be listening to different genres of music across many different platforms. This is especially true if the user is using the different platforms at different times of the year, as this pertained to one of our former sections of analysis directly. Furthermore, it would be interesting to gather more data from different users. This would allow us to further develop our logistic regression model to generalize to a larger audience than just the individual user we originally had data on. Additionally, we could explore other aspects of multi-user data, such as comparing music tastes between the individuals, by conducting statistical tests using the audio features that are the strongest indicators for each user.

**Please enjoy going through the final notebook in the *Analysis* folder, where you'll find detailed explanation and information for each potion of the analysis, along with code snippets for each corresponding section**
